# Framework for Collaborative Distributed Machine Learning

This repository contains the implementation of a framework for multiple CDML systems at once. The implemented CDML systems include Federated Learning, Assisted Learning and Split Learning. This implementation has been created as part of the Bachelor Thesis " Developing a benchmark framework for Collaborative Distributed Machine Learning" by Stefan Loeffelholz. 

## Using the framework

To use the framework, 3 test files have been created. In the first part of each test file, the seeds are normed and a dataloader is created. The dataloader of each file differs and holds different thirds of the Cifar100 dataset. The CDML_ConCooSelTraUpd_test.py is set up to be the server in federated or split learning and the help receiving organization in assisted learning. Please decomment the required algorithm. At the top of the file the FedAvg, Vanilla Split and Assisted Learning algorithm are currently imported. To select a different algorithm, just implement as required. The CDML_Tra_test_1 and 2 files are set up similarly just to include trainer agents which send interim results to the CDML_ConCooSelTraUpd_test.py. 

It is to be noted, that some functionality has not been implemented. For example, the operation phase of TraUpd, CooSel, ConTraUpd and CooSelTraUpd of Federated Learning are not implemented, as the envisioned system should use a ConCooSelTraUpd or ConCooSelUpd as the server and the Tra as the trainer. If there are cases where they are required, the operation phase can implement similar to the operation phase of the other agents, which requires roughly 10 lines of code. Do implement new algorithms or system, it is advised to use the folder structure which has been provided, but it is absolutely possible to create an object of for example the trainer of FedAvg and do Federated_Avg.Tra.trainMLModel(self) = new_trainMLModel(self). This is a quick way to implement a new algorithm. Other not implemented functionality has mainly to do with the starting and initilization process. This process is very specific in terms of the used algorithm and how agents want to coorporate. The implementation provide here is fully functional but should probably be adapted to the specific needs. For example the agents currently fetch the repository and apply directly without checking the requirements first. This design choice is due to the decision of wanting to join a coalition is very intricate and can incorporate many different layers including political and social problems. It should also be noted, that the agent amount and the roles that are distributed are dependend on the according file under base_constants.

For testing some model parameters have been specified. However github struggled to upload the parameters therefor new parameters are reuired.
